http://chinesereadingpractice.com/2015/03/05/the-beautiful-rabbit/

The "Beautiful" Rabbit

A fairly simple read for newbies about a self-hating rabbit.
Learn to Read Mandarin: Read Chinese StudyIn terms of plot, this is your basic "it’s what’s on the inside that counts", moral-of-the-story story. Frankly, it’s a bit boring, but there are a couple of good words and phrases in here. One in particular is difficult, and I couldn’t figure it out just by looking at the definition, I had to go hunt around a bit: 钻出来 zuān chū lái. We know that 出来 means to "come out of". But 钻? The first definition that came up when I looked was "diamond", but that wasn’t the correct definition in this case. Secondly, it also means to "drill" or "bore", which makes sense as a second definition of "diamond" – lots of diamond drill bits out there. But that still doesn’t work in context of the whole sentence. I finally ran a Baidu image search on the phrase, and there were lots of pictures of miners squeezing out of small spaces, children coming out of playground tunnels, workers coming out of manholes, and I realized that 钻出来 means to wiggle out of a space via a small opening. Imagine a secret agent crawling through an air duct; in Chinese, there’s a word for that, and that word is 钻.
I got this from Sina user Zifengling’s personal blog (http://blog.sina.com.cn/s/blog_6ace1efa0100kltk.html), in a post where she lists a few different easy stories, so if you wanna read some more on your own, head on over. I’ll probably translate another couple from there before too long.


森林里住着一只小兔子，它叫"丑丑"。
In the forest there lived a little rabbit whose name was "Chouchou".

它的眼睛红红的，像一对红宝石。
His eyes were red, like a pair of rubies.

可是它的毛灰灰的，像是从灰炉里钻出来似的，它觉得自己太丑了，常常一个人躲在家里。
But his fur was grey, like he’d wiggled out of a furnace, and he felt himself to be very ugly, often hiding in his house alone.



虽然它长得不好看，但是它有一颗无比善良的心。
Although he wasn’t nice to look at, he had an incomparably kind heart.

小猴子乐乐的家被大水冲垮了，无家可归。
When Little Monkey Lele’s home was burst apart by a flood, he had no house to return to.

丑丑就让乐乐住在自己的家，还把自己最喜欢吃的巧克力分给乐乐吃。
Chouchou let Lele live with him, and he divided up his favorite chocolate to give some to Lele to eat.

不仅如此，谁头痛、生病了，没钱买药，它都会尽其所能进行帮助。
Not only that, whoever had a headach, or got sick, with no money to buy medicine, he did everything he was able to do to help.

日子一天天过去了，丑丑还是很孤单。
The days passed one by one, and Chouchou was still alone.

Yīcì, sēnlín lǐ zuì hǎo kàn de xiǎo tùzǐ měiměi lái zhǎo tā wán, kě chǒu chǒu juédé zìjǐ tài chǒule, méiliǎn jiàn tā.
一次，森林里最好看的小兔子美美来找它玩，可丑丑觉得自己太丑了，没脸见它。
One time, the forest’s most beautiful rabbit Meimei came looking for Chouchou to play, but Chouchou thought of himself as just too ugly, he couldn’t face seeing her.

Měiměi gàosù chǒu chǒu:"Rén de wàibiǎo bìng bù chóng yào, zhòngyào de shì nèizài měi."
美美告诉丑丑："人的外表并不重要，重要的是内在美。"
Meimei told Chouchou: "It’s not what’s on the outside that counts, the important thing is what’s on the inside."

Chǒu chǒu huǎngrándàwù, tā pǎole chūqù, hé huǒbànmen yīqǐ jìnqíng de wánshuǎ.
丑丑恍然大悟，它跑了出去，和伙伴们一起尽情地玩耍。
Chouchou suddenly saw the light, he ran outside, and played with his friends to his heart’s content.
